# REP-0007: Implement EIP-2718 (Typed Transaction Envelope)

## Preamble
<pre>
REP-0007
Title: Implement EIP-2718 (Typed Transaction Envelope)
Author: Ronin Core Team
Type: Standard Track
Status: Approved
Created: 2023-11-02
</pre>

## Abstract
`TransactionType || TransactionPayload` is a valid transaction and `TransactionType || ReceiptPayload` is a valid transaction receipt where `TransactionType` identifies the format of the transaction and `*Payload` is the transaction/receipt contents, which are defined in future REPs.

This REP essentially enables Ethereum's EIP-2718.

## Rationale

By introducing an envelope transaction type, we can add new transaction types without worrying about backward compatibility with existing transactions. We just need to make sure that there is no numbering conflict between `TransactionType`s.

## Specification

The specification is the same as in EIP-2718. 

### Transactions
The transaction root in the block header MUST be the root hash of `patriciaTrie(rlp(Index) => Transaction)` where:

- `Index` is the index in the block of this transaction
- `Transaction` is either `TransactionType || TransactionPayload` or `LegacyTransaction`
- `TransactionType` is a positive unsigned 8-bit number between `0` and `0x7f` that represents the type of the transaction
- `TransactionPayload` is an opaque byte array whose interpretation is dependent on the `TransactionType` and defined in future REPs
- `LegacyTransaction` is `rlp([nonce, gasPrice, gasLimit, to, value, data, v, r, s])`

All signatures for future transaction types SHOULD include the `TransactionType` as the first byte of the signed data. This makes it so we do not have to worry about signatures for one transaction type being used as signatures for a different transaction type.

### Receipts
The receipt root in the block header MUST be the root hash of `patriciaTrie(rlp(Index) => Receipt)` where:

- `Index` is the index in the block of the transaction this receipt is for
- `Receipt` is either `TransactionType || ReceiptPayload` or `LegacyReceipt`
- `TransactionType` is a positive unsigned 8-bit number between `0` and `0x7f` that represents the type of the transaction
- `ReceiptPayload` is an opaque byte array whose interpretation is dependent on the `TransactionType` and defined in future REPs
- `LegacyReceipt` is `rlp([status, cumulativeGasUsed, logsBloom, logs])`

The TransactionType of the receipt MUST match the TransactionType of the transaction with a matching Index.


## Security analysis

It is STRONGLY recommended to include the transaction type as the first byte of the signed payload. If you fail to do this, it is possible that your transaction may be signature compatible with transactions of another type which can introduce security vulnerabilities for users.

## Reference
- EIP-2718: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2718

## License

The content is licensed under [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).